# TempestTunes

- **Motivation**: <br />
Choosing what music to listen to can be very difficult when you don’t know what you exactly want. Many people shuffle all of their saved songs, or take time to specifically tailor playlists to their own desires. Other times, you may pick an already curated playlist pushed by the app you're listening to. All these different ways of listening to music tend to be unenjoyable in one way or another and they keep listeners from discovering new music they may love. Tempest Tunes aims to break away from genre defined, corporate curated playlists and go after emotions with the most easily identifiable visualization of emotions, the weather. Tempest Tunes will deliver music to listeners based on active weather readings for their area, so no more time will be wasted wondering what you want to listen to. However, the biggest takeaway is that Tempest Tunes will deliver music dynamically in real time as the weather changes. This allows users to continue listening to music over the course of a day as their mood changes over time. Another advantage over our competition is that Tempest Tunes allows users to give feedback on what music they feel belongs to different types of weather patterns. This ensures that there is nuance to certain weather such as "Rainy" that may be interpreted as sad by some, and cozy by others. Tempest Tunes also urges listeners to give different music a try by categorizing songs based on their moody vibes rather than their genre. However, you can still go into genre defined playlists such as "Rock" to get a feel for how the genre can span multiple different feelings. Tempest Tunes will allow users to seamlessly continue listening to their favorite tracks, while discovering new music throughout the day as their mood changes with the weather.

- **Outcome**: <br />
The goal of Tempest Tunes is to provide curated music to its user based upon the current weather. In doing so, we will learn about connecting to API’s such as Spotify and OpenWeatherMap. WIth the use of an API, the end model will be purley software with no inclusion of hardware other than the computer executing the software. Now to explain a little of the user experience, users will be able to connect to our user interface and begin their curated music experience. When a new user begins, they will be prompted to select how they feel according to the selected weather status. This will tell the Tempest Tunes algorithm what to play for that user during the current weather. Once the user becomes accustomed to Tempest Tunes, they will be able to open the user interface and automatically play their music. From that point there will be features to add music to selected playlist, dislike songs and songs similar to that song, and create their own playlists for a weather type if they desire. The true outcome of Tempest Tunes is to allow the user to decide how they want to feel according to the weather and enjoy the music to enhance their mood. 
